# Rust Dalvik VM

## Introduction

This is a project I'm writing purely for educational purposes.

## Plan

- [x] Parse DEX file (I'm aware of `dexparser` and `dex` crates, but I want to do it myself to better understand DEX
  file structure)
- [ ] Be able to interpret simple DEX file (`hello.dex` in `tests/vm/hello.dex`, compiled
  from `tests/interpreter/hello.smali`)
- [ ] Add more tests for DEX file parser.
- [ ] Fix endianness support in DEX file parser. (currently it's only partial).
- [ ] Memory allocations?
- [ ] Garbage collection?
- [ ] JIT?
- [ ] AOT?
- [ ] JNI?
- [ ] Debugging?
- [ ] Something else I'm currently not aware of 😀

## Prerequisites

- MacOS / Linux
- Proguard (`brew install proguard` on MacOS)
- Android SDK (required for `d8`)
- `ANDROID_HOME` or `ANDROID_SDK_ROOT` environment variable pointing to Android SDK directory

## Project structure

### DEX file parser

- `src/dex/raw_dex_file.rs` - raw DEX file parser. It parses DEX file to a struct which is almost a 1:1 representation
  of DEX file structure.
- `src/dex/dex_file.rs` - DEX file parser. It uses raw dex file parser result to construct full in-memory representation
  of all parts of DEX file.

### Smali interpreter

As a first step I wanted to write a smali interpreter before writing an actual DEX interpreter.
However, my current Rust skills are not enough to make it work (lifetimes are evil 😰), so now this pars of VM is
abandoned.
Maybe in the future I will add support for direct smali interpretation. It should not be that hard, I will just need to
parse Smali code to some intermediate representation shared with DEX file parser and then interpret it.

- `src/gen/smali` - smali parser generated by `antlr4rust` official Smali grammar. I'm not going to use it for now.
- `src/smali/ast` - smali AST parser which I wanted to use for better Smali code representation (`antlr4rust` one is
  quite inconvenient).

